# Constrained-Voter-Modeling
This project aims to numerically investigate the constrained voter model and variations on it. The project was inspired by the following paper:
https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0305-4470/37/35/006

The authors do not provide code for the simulation referenced in the paper. Therefore, the initial goal of this project was to recreate that simulation from the mathematics described in the paper, and provide a visualization. I then expanded the model to cover birth and death in a community (aggregated as a single 'net-growth' constant). The political alignment of a 'child' is just set to that of the parent. This expansion eliminates the equilibria 'set' (x, 1-x, 0) described in the paper, outside of the limit case where N goes to infinity (where the frozen state equilibria set exists, in the sense that random walks reaching the point will be stationary with probability 1). However the birth/death addition preserves the nullclines, as well as the concensus equilibria. Movement along the nullclines remains probabilistic, with the probability of moving towards a certain concensus increases as the random walk approaches that concensus. The precise mathematics of the expanded model have yet to be fleshed out. I plan to use the same technique, to derive a PDE for reaching the line (x,1-x,0) in the limit case, as was described in the paper (finite difference, limit -> PDE). If the derived PDE turns out to quite difficult to solve then a finite-difference investigation will be performed.

Planned future expansions of the model are aimed at simulating political evolution over multiple communities (e.g. major cities, city/rural areas, etc), and stability investigations around equilibria (i.e. political 'shock' events).
